My name is Faustino Camacho Quispe.
My family and I speak Quechoa, or, as we say, Runasimi, the language of the people.
We live in an agricultural community in the mountains of Peru.
Our way of life depends on farming.
We grow crops such as corn, potatoes, wheat, and quinoa.
We also raise a small amount of livestock.
Many people who speak Quechoa have moved to larger cities, but others like us still enjoy
a more traditional way of life in the country.
My family and I are Jehovah's Witnesses.
Most of our brothers and sisters in this area would never have been able to learn the truth
had there not been anyone sent here to preach in Quechoa.
In 1992, the Peru branch office began to expand the work in the Quechoan language field.
In order to reach those living in isolated areas, zealous brothers and sisters climbed
narrow roads in the frigid elevations of the Andes Mountains.
Great efforts were made in order to bring Quechoa speaking people the good news in their
own language.
The people loved having publications in their mother tongue.
However, there were some challenges carrying out this work.
Some problem was not having a good translation of the Holy Scriptures in Quechoa.
The commonly used translations here in Peru omit God's name in the main text.
It can be found in the glossary of some Bibles, and sometimes we use that in order to preach.
But even so, it didn't have the same impact as seeing it in its proper place.
That along with the influence of false doctrines made it difficult for us to teach the truth.
When we teach people about the Bible, we want them to draw close to God.
We want them to become his friends.
But no one can be God's friend if they don't know his name.
For people to be able to come to love God, they have to know his name, and they have
to understand what it means.
It was difficult for us to use the Bible in the meetings, in the field ministry, and
in our family worship.
How could Jehovah's great name be sanctified throughout this mountainous region?
How could the Quechua people get to know God when his name was hidden?
The answer to our prayers came when Quechua congregations throughout the country were
invited to a special program on May 1, 2016.
Imagine the great joy we felt when Brother Jackson of the Governing Body announced the
release of the New World Translation of the Christian Greek Scriptures in two cultural
languages.
It's Quechua Pusko.
That's what Pusko, can you be us?
A lot of wonderful gifts we've received today.
This new Quechua Bible is a grand victory for Jehovah's great name.
God's name is no longer hidden from the Quechua people, giving them the precious opportunity
to come to know our loving Creator, Jehovah.
I feel proud to use our new Bible to teach my family and neighbors Jehovah's
name.
I am thankful every day that Jehovah sent this good news to the mountains to us who speak
RunaSimi, the language of the people.